# The Harmony of the Gospels
##### Cross Referencing and side-by-side study of New Testament stories

My project, which I am naming “the Harmony of the Gospels” was to set up a cross referencing system as well as a side-by-side study program of the stories from the four Gospels in the New Testament. This consisted of a website, with a table of various stories from the four gospels, as well as links to read those stories side-by-side in each of the four gospels. Thus providing an easy way to get a harmonious view of many of the stories from the life of Jesus Christ. For simplicity's sake(and for the sake of time), I excluded any stories that were only in one of the four gospels, and only made separate pages for stories that were mentioned in all four of the gospels. 
## Time Log
This project was broken up into the following steps:
  1. Create a cross reference system for stories in the New Testament, through careful cross examination of the four gospels (~7 hours)
  2. Create an HTML table organizing the stories in the New Testament and providing the respective references to that stories location in each of the four gospels (~4 hours)
  3. Create individual pages for each story that was present in all four of the Gospels, with the verses layed-out side-by-side for harmonious study of the individual stories (~3.5 hours)

Step 1 took by far the longest, and was most in line with the learning outcomes of the class. I worked on part 1 for about 1 hour every week for around 7 weeks, usually on Fridays in the time that we didn’t have this class. I missed weeks here and there but they were made up accordingly. Step 2 took longer than I was expecting, (as I had to learn HTML as well), but it mostly consisted of tedious labor of inserting references into an HTML table. THe work was split up over a couple of weeks. Step 3 also took longer than was preferred, and almost all of it was completed in the last week that the project was due. Due to time constraints, pages were only made for stories with references in all four gospels. The total time spent on this project was around 15 hours.
## Learning Outcome: Spiritually Strengthening
I feel that the intensive study of the stories in the New Testament really helped me to see how complementary the testimonies that are expressed in each of the four Gospels are, and it really helped strengthen my testimony of the Savior and His divine mission here on Earth. I felt like I came closer to the Savior by looking for the ways that the gospel writers testified of similar topics and events in the Savior's life.
## Learning Outcome: Intellectually Enlarging
Aside from learning to use HTML and CSS, this project has also been very intellectually enlarging from a scriptural standpoint. Studying various stories side-by-side has allowed me to see many of the similarities and differences between the different accounts of the life of Jesus. It’s caused me to think more deeply about the scriptures and particular wording and has led to a lot of spiritual and intellectual insights that I have never had before.
## Learning Outcome: Character Building
I feel like doing any tedious task for long amounts of time can build character. It’s like the movie HOLES. And inputting scriptural references into HTML tables is about as boring and monotonous as digging a hole. I also read the scriptures a lot more and that of course makes you a better person and I have definitely seen that in my life as I have studied the four gospels. 
## Learning Outcome: Lifelong Learning and Service
If I am being completely honest I’m not super sure what this means, but I will say the following: 1. I have a better understanding of the New Testament, leading me to want to learn more and to serve others as I apply the principles of the gospel that I study. 2. I now know slightly more about web development and those skills could possibly allow increased service and learning in the future. 
## Conclusion
Overall I am very pleased with the result of my project. I feel like the biggest impact was my own personal knowledge and testimony of the Savior and the scriptures. I am also very pleased with the tool that was made for the side-by-side study of New Testament stories. I feel that there is more work that can be done, to make pages for ALL the stories and not just the ones included in all four gospels. But that, my friends, is work for another day, and I am duly pleased with the work that has already been accomplished.
